## Mathematics and Programming
When you write a general book about programming, you have to think about the code examples you give in the book. One choice would be, to take some simple examples, everybody can relate to, like fruits, cars or people. I guess the idea behind this examples is, to give the reader an image so simple, he would not even have to think about the scenario, and the full focus stays on the programming example. Given even well chosen examples, this has not necessarily to be true. A reader might think of the edge cases and generalizations of the scenario, where those simple examples quickly reach their limits. Another problem is, that these examples are not really relevant for programming. Another problem is, that this examples lack clear definition. And this is actually an interesting issue to discuss.
All things we are facing and handling in real life are usually, if at all, loosely defined. In opposition to that, all entities we use in programming are defined in an absolute and definitive way. [This last word/sentence is kind of a tautology.] Even if this definition is not clear to the programmer, it just means that we have not quite understood what we just coded. But every entity in any program is clearly defined by the code. There is no ambiguity, no hidden meaning, no incomplete picture. Programming does have this characteristic in common with mathematics. And this is not a surprise, because programming was born in mathematics. In a way it is even a branch of mathematics.
This characteristic makes it difficult to translate real world problems into a program, because real world problems/tasks allow for a lot of ambiguity. In real life a lot of things are defined implicitly or circular if defined at all. There are even good arguments for rejecting the differentiation of objects in the real world at all, or seeing objects just as a byproduct of tasks/goals. This questions an objective world view in its foundation.
The thing to take away from this is: There is a fundamental difference between the things in real life and the things in mathematics and programming. And this is also a reason why real life examples for programming often feel misfit. A lot of good programming literature uses mathematical examples extensively.

####
We will ... -- it is ...
At the very beginning, when we will introduce [the concept of] programming, we will use quasi real world examples to make -- no we are not going to talk about this.  It is obviously bad practice to first explain how we are going to do what we are going to do instead of just do it.  Of course the here said thoughts are still valid, but the addressee is not not the reader, it is me.  A fundamental flaw of my own writings is this superfluous usage of signposting and meta discussion.  Not to forget that any meta discussion requires its own meta discussion.  This is one of the reasons why I never get to write anything at all. 