# Mathematics
There is an important distinction between mathematics you learn in school ("calculating things" as I would like to call it) and proper mathematics. Of course if you practice proper mathematics you will also get to results which will allow you to calculate things but it is more of a side product. The core of mathematics revolves around formalism (and formalization) which leads to overwhelming elegance and clarity. Before Rousseau [check with Russell on that] mathematics was the way look upon god, the way to the divine was the intellect and the scholars tried to proof the existence of god by proofing it with logic. This god and its mathematical and logical tools were of course born by Plato's idealism.
For example a linear mapping `M: R^n -> R^m` can simply be written as:
```
y = M x
```
This simple formula expresses not only the the characteristics of a linear mapping but also the nature of it being a *matrix* and thereby how the calculation is actually executed. But of course you have to know all the included concepts of what a *matrix* is, what `R^n` and `R^m` means, what a *vector space* and a *vector* mean; or this could also appear to you as a simple linear equation which is related to but not the same as a more general linear mapping. This shows also that mathematics is relying strongly on a hierarchy of knowledge. If you do not understand the above mentioned concepts and all their pre-concepts back to the most basic ones, you will not understand what the formula means. It is comparable to the situation at school, where you will not be able to solve the problem of finding the minimum of a given function if you do not understand how to transform [wp: Äquivalenzumformung] an equation.
In a sense this makes mathematics very simple. Almost everyone of those rules expresses a simple concept that is composed of a few other simple concepts; and we will take care of the small number of problems which are not trivial due a required shift in perspective with special attention. But it is paramount not to skip any step because "for so doing, none of the steps pardons me" [Zarathustra I, The Tree on the Hill].
The reward for following this long way is elegance and clarity; without those it would not be possible to climb the ladder of abstraction any higher and build another level of elegance, clarity and understanding.

Well it is not the entire truth. The mathematical hierarchy based on *axioms* is not all that there is in mathematics as Gödel proofed. And the truth is it is possible to practice proper mathematics without the strict hierarchy. It is even possible to jump into a topic and find solutions just with some basic reasoning. [What are we going to do with that?]