# Programs to Write

The number of programs at our finger tips seems to have no limit.  So what are we going to program first?  How are we going to decide which programs to write?

Different people might have different reasons to write software.  Some might look for a way to earn money.  Others might search for a way to change the world.  And some might be driven by sincere technical curiosity.  The areas "in" which we write software in are as diverse:  They might be purely "platonic" as in Mathematics and Informatics; they might be purely "information technological" as for database and management systems;  they might be statistical; they might be technical and scientific, and simulate exhaustion gas systems or analyze the development of the animal life in rain forests; they might analyze the languages, mimic human sight and create music.

At the beginning of our journey, we are completely free to choose any imaginable topic.  But we are forced to choose; to pick one Aufgabe [yes, it is a quest and it is a task and it is exercise] after the next one to improve our skills and to exercise.  And we will find it hard to finish those tasks, struggle to hand over working programs, not to speak of good programs.  This is the pain we all have to face in our  profession.

(It is said that it is hard to write good programs; it is also said that the hardest thing in programming is naming.  Some say that programming is a art.  But it is more true that it is a craft.  Those who say programming has to be learned by writing and reading programs might be closer to the truth; but we always have to remember that we have to absolutely precise in our work too.)

The platonic way to approach programming is the easiest.  Because one thing that is even harder than naming is to find out what the program should actually do.  In all the years I am programming now, this was the main issue in every project I was involved.  If I did not write a piece of software for myself, where I understood the problem almost entirely, finding out what the software was actually supposed to do was impossible.  Because the customer does not understand his business in a concise and detailed way, so he could explain the programmer what to write (if he would, he could write the program himself without the help of a programmer) and the programmer does not understand the business of the customer, even if he thinks he does, it is false.  It is usually relatively easy to write a program meet the specification, but the specification is not what the customer needs.  (There might be exceptions to this, where the customer has a lot of experience to specify program tasks, and knows what to ask for, but I have never experienced that, not even with customers that order multiple websites per year for a long time.  This issue is particularly hard in the software industry, because nobody has the slightest idea of what he is actually ordering. If you order a car you might not only have the expectation of 5 doors, a roof, a engine, four wheels and a steering wheel, but, if you have an at least somewhat experienced buyer, he will also have an idea of the working principle of the engine, the fundamental parts involved, the number of cylinders, the cooling and oil circle et cetera. But in the software industry you will easily encounter customers that want want to buy a car for the price of a bicycle, and they specified four wheels and a seat, but expect a full car with engine, a car body and all conveniences, because all of that goes without saying, for the price of  a bicycle of course.  But we should not laugh about such customers.  They have absolutely no idea how software works, and how much work goes in which part.  And it lies in our responsibility to clarify such circumstances form the beginning. -- It is no wonder that there are no norms in software development.)  The advantage with mathematical problems is that all definitions and clarifications are by Mathematics already.  If anything is unclear, we just need to take a mathematical book and read it up. 

Some of the mathematical tasks are quite trivial and we just implement them en passant.

```
a = (b + c) / 2
d = list[i++] = base_value
```

