# Starting
Before starting to write a introductory text — to pretty much any topic — one must always decide at witch point the reader should be picked up (I actually would like to write « ... should be collected» here in reference to a side meaning of the German idiom but I better leave the language here in peace).  This decision cuts the world in two halves: The world before the text, a common ground the reader as well as the author already are familiar with. And another world the author guides the reader through. This second world builds on the ground of the first one; if the author demands knowledge from the first world that does not exist in the reader the journey must fail. This is in particular difficult in case of a text that is entitled to be introductory in the sense that it demands a minimum of preexisting knowledge. It is not only hard to narrow down this minimal knowledge but it is ... [ ... ] It would make no sense to start with the English grammar (to teach the author reading first) not only because this would completely overwhelm the the scope of the text but is a fundamental misconception that teaching and learning works in that way. No one learns his mother tongue by learning the grammar first; there would even be a language to to learn the grammar in. So how does learning a language even work at all? What is the common ground to teach such a thing? In case of a natural language it might not even be that important to understand that mechanism in detail because learning goes somehow natural. But for learning something technical this might be a fundamental question.