# Turing Completeness and what you can do with a programming language:
The characteristic *Turing complete* is a statement about the possible computations a system or programming language can perform. So the questions "can a operating system like Windows 7 be implemented in a Turing complete language like PHP" might be built on wrong assumptions. What we usually call a computer is much more than a Turing machine. Above of the actually computing parts, the *arithmetic logic unit* (ALU) together with the memory, a computer does have systems that allow communication with the outside: input and output (IO). This IO systems allows the user to give the computer commands via keyboard, mouse, scanner or other input devices; allow the computer to provide information to the user via  monitors, speakers, printers and other peripherals; enable the storage of data on storage devices and communication to other computers via the network.
The purpose of the operating system is to organize all of this resources so the applications can easily access them. Doing this the operating system does not have to do much computation at all. This means that writing an operating system is not so much a question of Turing completeness and computability but more of access of the basic systems of a computer and performance. Performance is of course not a question of functionality but obviously it is desirable that the basic functionality of a system wastes only a minimum of the available resources.
Since high level programming languages like PHP need a running operating system and a interpreter on top of it to run they are not able to implement a native operating system simply because they can not access the computer hardware directly. But of course it would be possible to simulate a computer, within the IO boundaries given to PHP,  and write a operating system on top of that. The performance and sense of such a enterprise would be questionable although.
